[Music]
there is a very good feeling behind
solving the problems when you try hard
hard and you can find a solution and
suddenly you say oh that's it and i
think my miso honey could show this
passion to everyone
[Music]
we had just asserted middle school and
we
became close friends
it was always very motivating to try to
compete with the boys
it was in 1994 in hong kong maryam got a
gold medal she got 40 out of 42. she
became well known more women came into
mathematics after that being a girl and
having earned a gold medal at olympia
was very inspiring knowing that it's not
impossible
trying to prove a serum is like trying
to climb the mountain which nobody has
ever climbed at some point you kind of
felt recollect you could see the top but
then there is a savine in front and
you're stuck
i thought that i
had a good way of doing it but i found
that actually what i was doing was
completely wrong i have no idea
do you no i have no idea
she was thinking and not going anywhere
she was unhappy
they used some result which contained a
table part of the proof just evaporated
sometimes you see she was happy like she
said oh i have this idea and i hope it's
correct actually let me not think about
it because i want to enjoy the feeling
that it might be correct good
mathematicians have the courage to
imagine that they can solve a problem
and to imagine an answer
maryam
for her outstanding contributions
to the dynamics and geometry of riemann
surfaces and their modulized spaces
in 2014 she became the first woman to
win the fields medal the most
prestigious prize in mathematics
it's a huge breakthrough a bunch of
problems that you could not even
approach you couldn't solve at all you
couldn't even think about them you can
now solve just by
applying this theorem marion would see
influences of all these different fields
instead of trying to understand just
implications she was trying to
understand how things would interact she
would start describing sort of elaborate
stories or mathematical narratives
and these narratives were almost like
science fiction she would sort of think
ahead as to what the shape
of the theory might be that was yet to
be discovered
for the iranian community that was a
really proud moment mariam is one of the
few
figures that really unites the whole
country there's so few women in
mathematics so we always celebrate when
we hear of a fantastic new young woman
people look at her and see what she
accomplished and girls will look at that
and say that can be me
it doesn't matter being the first one
you can do anything that you want to and
you put your desire and your efforts in
[Music]